README.md, before:

# jworldcup-ui-an
JWorldcup soccer bet game user interface on HTML5/TypeScript/Angular (depends on jworldcup-be-sb backend)

## Install (Active LTS) Node.js (and npm) on Ubuntu

```
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_16.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt install -y nodejs
node --version
```

## Install (update) npm

```
sudo npm install -g npm
npm --version
```

## Install Angular CLI

```
sudo npm uninstall -g angular-cli
sudo npm uninstall -g @angular/cli
npm cache clean --force
sudo npm install -g @angular/cli
ng version
```

## Create Angular application

`brazso@mars:~/work/jworldcup$ ng new jworldcup-ui-an`

> ? Would you like to add Angular routing? Yes

> ? Which stylesheet format would you like to use? SCSS   [ https://sass-lang.com/documentation/syntax#scss ]

### Role of package-lock.json

- Add the _package-lock.json_ you to your version control repository
- Use `npm ci` instead of `npm install` when building your application both locally and in your deployment pipeline.
- To update a single package use `npm update @angular/flex-layout`

### Additional packages

#### PrimeNG
Follow install tutorial [ https://primefaces.org/primeng/showcase/#/setup ]

```
npm install primeng
npm install primeicons
```

In angular.json file add new css files to styles block:

    "styles": [
        "src/styles.scss",
        "node_modules/primeicons/primeicons.css",
        "node_modules/primeng/resources/themes/saga-blue/theme.css",
        "node_modules/primeng/resources/primeng.min.css"
    ],

#### Layout

npm install @angular/flex-layout

#### Translation

npm install @ngneat/transloco

#### Input Trim

npm install ng2-trim-directive

#### Charts.js
npm install chart.js

### PDF viewer
npm install print-js

### Websocket
npm install @stomp/rx-stomp

## Start Angular application
```
ng serve
```

## Upgrade application to newer Angular version, e.g. #14

- `ng update @angular/core@14 @angular/cli@14`
- upgrade additonal packages in package.json, e.g. primeng, and run `npm install`

## Useful links

- [Angular: Core and Shared Modules](https://medium.com/@joao.aguas/angular-core-and-shared-modules-efe072bc9645)
- [Fully fledged example Angular application](https://github.com/gothinkster/angular-realworld-example-app)
- [Authentication-forms tutorial](https://thinkster.io/tutorials/building-real-world-angular-2-apps/authentication-forms)
- [Login/Register form sample](https://codepen.io/gstorbeck/embed/gbNEOr?height=530&theme-id=0&slug-hash=gbNEOr&default-tab=css%2Cresult&user=gstorbeck&pen-title=Login%20Form&name=cp_embed_93)
- [Layout demos](https://tburleson-layouts-demos.firebaseapp.com/)
- [An input validation message to use with PrimeNG ](https://gist.github.com/sannonaragao/dbf747676016ed0c4054f8abd2e2a4d2)
- [A secure way to encrypt any password in the config file in a Spring Boot project](https://medium.com/engineering-jio-com/a-secure-way-to-encrypt-any-password-in-the-config-file-in-a-spring-boot-project-20d12436b4b9)

Commit message:

added docker usage info for production

README.md, after:

# jworldcup-ui-an
JWorldcup soccer bet game user interface on HTML5/TypeScript/Angular (depends on jworldcup-be-sb backend)

## Install (Active LTS) Node.js (and npm) on Ubuntu

```
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_16.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt install -y nodejs
node --version
```

## Install (update) npm

```
sudo npm install -g npm
npm --version
```

## Install Angular CLI

```
sudo npm uninstall -g angular-cli
sudo npm uninstall -g @angular/cli
npm cache clean --force
sudo npm install -g @angular/cli
ng version
```

## Create Angular application

`brazso@mars:~/work/jworldcup$ ng new jworldcup-ui-an`

> ? Would you like to add Angular routing? Yes

> ? Which stylesheet format would you like to use? SCSS   [ https://sass-lang.com/documentation/syntax#scss ]

### Role of package-lock.json

- Add the _package-lock.json_ you to your version control repository
- Use `npm ci` instead of `npm install` when building your application both locally and in your deployment pipeline.
- To update a single package use `npm update @angular/flex-layout`

### Additional packages

#### PrimeNG
Follow install tutorial [ https://primefaces.org/primeng/showcase/#/setup ]

```
npm install primeng
npm install primeicons
```

In angular.json file add new css files to styles block:

    "styles": [
        "src/styles.scss",
        "node_modules/primeicons/primeicons.css",
        "node_modules/primeng/resources/themes/saga-blue/theme.css",
        "node_modules/primeng/resources/primeng.min.css"
    ],

#### Layout

npm install @angular/flex-layout

#### Translation

npm install @ngneat/transloco

#### Input Trim

npm install ng2-trim-directive

#### Charts.js
npm install chart.js

### PDF viewer
npm install print-js

### Websocket
npm install @stomp/rx-stomp

## Start Angular application
```
ng serve
```

## Build Angulat application for production
```
ng build
```

## Docker images
In production the application runs in a docker container.

### Start docker container of the application for production
```
docker-compose up --build
```

### Stop running docker container of the application (in production)
```
docker-compose down
```

## Upgrade application to newer Angular version, e.g. #14

- `ng update @angular/core@14 @angular/cli@14`
- upgrade additonal packages in package.json, e.g. primeng, and run `npm install`

## Useful links

- [Angular: Core and Shared Modules](https://medium.com/@joao.aguas/angular-core-and-shared-modules-efe072bc9645)
- [Fully fledged example Angular application](https://github.com/gothinkster/angular-realworld-example-app)
- [Authentication-forms tutorial](https://thinkster.io/tutorials/building-real-world-angular-2-apps/authentication-forms)
- [Login/Register form sample](https://codepen.io/gstorbeck/embed/gbNEOr?height=530&theme-id=0&slug-hash=gbNEOr&default-tab=css%2Cresult&user=gstorbeck&pen-title=Login%20Form&name=cp_embed_93)
- [Layout demos](https://tburleson-layouts-demos.firebaseapp.com/)
- [An input validation message to use with PrimeNG ](https://gist.github.com/sannonaragao/dbf747676016ed0c4054f8abd2e2a4d2)
- [A secure way to encrypt any password in the config file in a Spring Boot project](https://medium.com/engineering-jio-com/a-secure-way-to-encrypt-any-password-in-the-config-file-in-a-spring-boot-project-20d12436b4b9)
